# project-f1
## Introduction
This python program analyses the file generated by the timing system during Formula 1 Grand Prix practice session and displays the performance of current drivers. It works on lap time data publishes results like fastest driver, fastest lap times, average lap times and overall performance. This program requires two input files to read the data and displays output in tabular format. 

## Features
The program analyses the data and displays in tabular form using tabulate library. Other features include: 
* Displays error message if the required files are missing. 
* Reads and outputs the location of the Grand Prix. 
* Identifies and displays the description of the overall fastest driver.
* Displays the fastest lap time for each driver. 
* Calculates the average time for each driver and overall average of all the drivers.
* Sorts the fastest lap time for each driver in descending order of time.

## Files Requirement
1.	Lap time file
This file should contain the location of the race as its first line. All other lines contain driver’s code as its first three character and the corresponding driver’s lap time as the remaining character. This file is given as command-line argument during running of the program. Following lines show the content of this file as an example:
```
Dewsbury
SAI111.875
STR103.844
```
2.	Driver data file
This file should contain the description of each driver. Each line should include driver’s number, driver’s code, driver’s name and team separated by comma. Following lines show the example for this file’s content.
```
1,VER,Max Verstappen,Red Bull Racing
2,SAR,Logan Sargeant,Williams
```

## Program Working
The program starts by taking lap time data file as command-line argument, splits each line into driver’s code and lap-time and stores each lap-time for every driver in a dictionary format, with the driver’s code as a key and corresponding list of driver’s lap-time as a value. The driver’s description is also stored as dictionary in similar key-value pair after splitting the values separated by comma. All the calculations are done inside the “computation” function where two dictionaries are created to store the fastest time for each driver code and average time for each driver code. In both the dictionaries, driver code are the keys and the computed results are the values. The results are then displayed in tabular format using tabulate library. 

## Libraries Used
* sys: For reading command-line argument using sys.argv and for exiting system using sys.exit()
* os: For clearing the screen before displaying the result using os.system(‘cls’)
* tabulate: For displaying the results in tabular format.
* textwrap: For indenting each row of the table to display output in proper formatting. 
